morning all a couple of you have pointed
out a critical notes regarding the level
Iranian game
tooms was clear-cut here and I had
indicated actually in my notes before
doing the video that a number of these
Pullman moves by ranch Bob were kind of
blunders the first one at moved 29
because this was given us an inferior
move by it by an engine a four okay so
Brooke be seven and then a free given us
a blunder and Bishop d 2 a 2 now ok I
know engines are great but Reggie Bob
did have I've take your idea here
perhaps that in this position we get
this final position of the game and two
of you so Carol kiril's carry owls Curos
kiril's and also comment to 20 29 I have
pointed out that this final position
here there's an interesting thing going
on which may have been Reggie Bob's idea
that the Queen in theory is is
supporting the h7 point here so this
pawns on the verge of queening so it's
actually a very dramatic position and I
just assumes like this this was the end
of the game because you know of a mate's
hair and i thought this this was still a
mating thing with Queenie for I didn't
mention it here in this position that
the pawn on d5 vs g 6 gives black the
option of this kind of maneuver
potentially and so basically Queen takes
e4 check needs to be Illustrated okay so
rook takes e4 and black Queens now in
this position
it starts off with rook e6 check king h5
and here you might think ah well just
taking on 87 that's not really of the
case if you take on h7 here let's just
take on 87 and the second engine on here
if we take on 87 actually plaque is
escaping kingi for black it's got the f5
square that bishops just being removed
controlling that uh f5 square and
there's actually no mates here it's
actually black plans actually might
believe it or not I'm actually not be
being mated in this position you know
check what can we do we can't make black
the black king so the actual the key to
it as pointed out by couple you guys and
thanks very much is in this position
there's a mating free um with the move
g4 check and basically this forces the
King onto the H file with G for being
petted because after with rook h6 check
because this rooks needs to hold hold
the FR King takes a nut f-free mate here
and if on King to King takes g4 check
and again we use this H file now and
everything's covered all the escape
routes so I think earlier with the porn
on g6 let's just rewind with a pawn what
when it was on g6 there was a clear
mating fret so this this was protected
at this age seven square was protected
with g5 and okay so Bishop efore yeah i
think this dis is where so Brooke h7r is
a mate fret and that's that's a key line
to play Queen take see what might have
been Rosa Bob's idea he's saving himself
maybe he fought this move it would have
been a brilliant save okay so it does
require some precision here and the mate
we've check now if so King h5 is a
mating fray but there's also a bishop f6
this is still better for white it's
actually in 1825 so I think blacks
getting mowed down Brook he takes f6 and
black has to give up the Queen just the
rook down if King h5 we can take and
we're holding that F farm so here its
mate so I thought a quick video note
about this position so thanks very much
for highlighting that I thought I should
illustrate both of your comments so
thank you carol skills and comment 2029
that this final position had this
resource and that kind of highlights how
clever Aronian is sometimes tactically
even though he had some tactical slips
during the torment if he'd seen this
which I assume he'd seen this because
this porn otherwise the whole plan could
actually be working with this Queen sack
so I think it is a very important note
to accompany in that main video so
comments or questions on YouTube thanks
very much